---
author: Danny
---
Sorry I'm a week late with this.  I'm trying to add some Japanese versions for my friends over here (and personal practice) but I'm pushing this with incomplete translations to get the already-late material out.

- [Holiday Recovery](#holiday-recovery)
- [Karaoke in Kobe](#karaoke-in-kobe)
- [New Years](#new-years)
- [Photography](#photography)
    - [Maishima Dec 29](#maishima-dec-29)
    - [Juso Jan 3](#juso-jan-3)
    - [Dotonbori Jan 4](#dotonbori-jan-4)
    - [Phone Pics](#phone-pics)
- [Return to US](#return-to-us)
- [Nuclear War Survival Skills](#nuclear-war-survival-skills)

## Holiday Recovery
After three consecutive nights of *enjoying-Japan-while-I'm-here* , I had a pretty sore throat and a bit of a cough.  Given the covid-era, I decided to visit the local hospital.  Due to my mild symptoms and my previous covid infection last April, they decided to just toss me some meds and send me on my way, but not until I waited about an hour in this high quality receiving/quarantine room.

日本で遊びたいから三日パーティーしていました。そのあとでのどが痛くんったとちょっとせき出ました。Covidのところから、病院に行った。症状が低くて前の時Covid受けたから、医者が薬出して家に出ました。でも、病院で一時間ぐらいここに待ちました。

<div class="block_c">
<blockquote class="imgur-embed-pub" lang="en" data-id="a/9S3zjDM"  ><a href="//imgur.com/a/9S3zjDM">西淀川病院</a></blockquote><script async src="//s.imgur.com/min/embed.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</div>

The health care system in Japan is arguably one of the most significant differences from life in the US.  In my personal experience, Japan's medical facilities can be a bit older and slower in less popular neighborhoods like my own, but fairly comparable to the US in the more built-up areas.  I've gone to the hospital for fevers, colds, covid, indigestion, pink-eye, and dermatology, and the treatment across the board has been pretty satisfactory, with perhaps the exception of a 5-day delivery for a positive covid test-result.  I can't complain too much though given the skilled labor shortage, national economy, and "unprecedented times".  Notably though, the price has always been indisputably lower than the US.  This check-in and the prescribed medicine cost me less than $40, but in the US it would have likely been so expensive that I'd probably just stay at home and been miserable instead of going to the hospital at all.  

On the other hand, friends have complained about not being able to get an MRI after they were knocked out by a car and were then sent home in generally unfit condition.  Other friends though boast about their cutting-edge knee operation by one of the world's best surgeons, but this lucky patient also had private healthcare.  

Anyway, after the hospital visit, I spent a while recovering by reading about photography, nuclear war, and software.

## Karaoke in Kobe
Two days later, Mari messages me and asks if I want to meet up in Kobe for karaoke with Chady & Grace.  I couldn't have refuse if I wanted to.

A spontaneous trip to Kobe would also be a cool photography session.  Kobe is a clean and fashionable city and has some cool architecture, so I hopped on the train with my camera bag and tripod.  Unfortunately, the train was delayed, so I only got about a half hour to bumble around Sannomiya station.

<div class="block_c">
<blockquote class="imgur-embed-pub" lang="en" data-id="a/B3zBJzM"  ><a href="//imgur.com/a/B3zBJzM">神戸の夜</a></blockquote><script async src="//s.imgur.com/min/embed.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</div>

Taking pictures was fun, but I certainly don't think I did the area justice.  A lot of shots came out blurry, out of focus, and my sense of composition is still pretty simple.  A lot things that looked really cool I couldn't turn into a compelling product.  I'm clearly an amateur.  A few could look better with a sensible crop and level/color manipulation, but I haven't gotten around to it yet.

Anyways, I lost track of time and Mari messages me asking where I am.  Yikes.  I swap my camera gear for my skateboard in my backpack and hustle out to Torikizoku.

Torikizoku is a pretty sensible fried chicken (Yakitori) izakaya type of chain throughout Japan that offers well-priced food and well-priced drinks.  Chady, Grace, Mari, and I had some good conversations about current developments, folks back home, and plans for the future.  

<div class="block_c">
<blockquote class="imgur-embed-pub" lang="en" data-id="a/cJMleDq"  ><a href="//imgur.com/a/cJMleDq">焼き鳥</a></blockquote><script async src="//s.imgur.com/min/embed.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</div>

After a couple drinks and chicken (including some liver that I mistakenly ordered and didn't particularly fancy), we headed off to karaoke.

Karaoke is generally a lot of fun for me if I get in a loose enough headspace.  I had a great time, but given my recovery from a cold, I wasn't a perfect rockstar that night.

<div class="block_c">
<blockquote class="imgur-embed-pub" lang="en" data-id="a/TWd6m0r"  ><a href="//imgur.com/a/TWd6m0r">神戸のカラオケ</a></blockquote><script async src="//s.imgur.com/min/embed.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</div>

Alas, the impending last trains back to our homes drove our night to a close, and we hung out by the station.  I took some more low-quality photos before boarding the last train back to Tsukamoto.

<div class="block_c">
<blockquote class="imgur-embed-pub" lang="en" data-id="a/AIWwFou"  ><a href="//imgur.com/a/AIWwFou">Waiting at the station</a></blockquote><script async src="//s.imgur.com/min/embed.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</div>

## New Years
I hung out with my friends Meow Meow, Maimai, Nana, and Sebastian for New Years.  Meow Meow always organizes and hosts really good events such as our camping trip on Biwako, and we had an excellent hot-pot dinner and host of games.  Meow Meow is a competitive game player, but also great at explaining any game to newbies.  Maimai hosted us in her homely and cozy apartment, and we talked all night over drinks.  Meow Meow and I had a good conversation outside about future plans and the fears of returning to our home countries.  

<div class="block_c">
<blockquote class="imgur-embed-pub" lang="en" data-id="a/9f5rlmW"  ><a href="//imgur.com/a/9f5rlmW">New Years</a></blockquote><script async src="//s.imgur.com/min/embed.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</div>

After enough glasses of wine, we pulled the window curtains back to see that the sun had risen as we binge-watched the second season of *Emily in Paris*.  Sandwiched between two of my tired and sleeping comrades on the couch, I concluded that it 2022 was going to be a good year.  Unfortunately, my voice was completely wrecked at this time, and as Nana and I walked back to the train station, I struggled to maintain the most curt of conversations.  We parted ways, and I spent the better part of two days trying to rest up and get my voice back.

## Photography
I spent most of my remaining free-time this break playing more with photography.  I'm going to want to remember this place, and photography sessions are a good excuse to slowly explore some of these cool places by foot and develop a neat skill.

### Maishima Dec 29
Maishima is one of my favorite places in Osaka.  It's a manmade island in the bay that mostly contains logistics warehouses by the harbors.  It also has several sports complexes, parks, boardwalks, resorts, and an oddly styled sludge treatment facility.  Maishima is a rare place to visit since it's far from Osaka's more populous areas, and parts of it seem to be overgrown and falling into disrepair.  I enjoy that it's more quiet and less crowded than the rest of the city.

I started taking pictures in the park across from the island.
<div class="block_c">
<blockquote class="imgur-embed-pub" lang="en" data-id="a/rilkn7F"  ><a href="//imgur.com/a/rilkn7F">Across Maishima</a></blockquote><script async src="//s.imgur.com/min/embed.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</div>

This quiet park has quite a few stray cats.  They're pretty friendly, probably because other humans seem to frequently feed them and leave them bowls of food.  On my first marathon-run two years ago, I took a break and pet them.  This day they were good photography subjects.

<div class="block_c">
<blockquote class="imgur-embed-pub" lang="en" data-id="a/FGhE6vU"  ><a href="//imgur.com/a/FGhE6vU">Cats by Maishima</a></blockquote><script async src="//s.imgur.com/min/embed.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</div>

I rode along my typical running route.
<div class="block_c">
<blockquote class="imgur-embed-pub" lang="en" data-id="a/QcgFAtE"  ><a href="//imgur.com/a/QcgFAtE">Maishima Afternoon</a></blockquote><script async src="//s.imgur.com/min/embed.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</div>

The [sludge treatmant facility](https://slate.com/human-interest/2014/07/hundertwasser-the-architect-behind-waldspirale-hundertwasserhaus-and-maishima-waste-treatment-plant.html) looks like something out of DonkeyKong64.  It's spectacularly odd, and I love it.  I should probably go back with a wider-angle lens.

<div class="block_c">
<blockquote class="imgur-embed-pub" lang="en" data-id="a/Ujm7q2Z"  ><a href="//imgur.com/a/Ujm7q2Z">Maishima Sludge Center  </a></blockquote><script async src="//s.imgur.com/min/embed.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</div>

I wrapped it up and started for home as it got dark.  I think most subjects look neater in low-light, but I have the tendency to under/over-expose them sometimes.
<div class="block_c">
<blockquote class="imgur-embed-pub" lang="en" data-id="a/3x8S0ZC"  ><a href="//imgur.com/a/3x8S0ZC">Maishima Departure</a></blockquote><script async src="//s.imgur.com/min/embed.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</div>

### Juso Jan 3
By this time I'd acquired a 35mm F/1.4 lens for better low-light and bokeh performance, but it's a simple manual-focus with no stabilization, so it takes a little more skill to generate clear results.
I set out for Juso on my skateboard to get some shots as the sun set.

<div class="block_c">
<blockquote class="imgur-embed-pub" lang="en" data-id="a/9oCamCL"  ><a href="//imgur.com/a/9oCamCL">十三の夕日</a></blockquote><script async src="//s.imgur.com/min/embed.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</div>

Looking at the results, reverting to Auto ISO gave me pretty noisy results, but lowering it below 2000 often required a slow shutter speed that I couldn't make clear without a tripod.  As much as I like my tripod, I know that if I set it up for every shot, I'll get more stable results but far fewer shots in a given amount of time.

<div class="block_c">
<blockquote class="imgur-embed-pub" lang="en" data-id="a/3RZoWmN"  ><a href="//imgur.com/a/3RZoWmN">十三の夜 一月三日</a></blockquote><script async src="//s.imgur.com/min/embed.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</div>

### Dotonbori Jan 4
Dotonbori's a fun area, so I thought I'd see how I do at it on an overcast day.  I got off by bike and climbed up a crosswalk-bridge to get started.

Zoom lenses are fun for urban photography.
<div class="block_c">
<blockquote class="imgur-embed-pub" lang="en" data-id="a/tufOpeC"  ><a href="//imgur.com/a/tufOpeC">Walking to Dotonbori</a></blockquote><script async src="//s.imgur.com/min/embed.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</div>

I stopped at a conbini in America-town to get an energy boost.  America-town, or Ame-mura, has a lot of trendy small shops and a pretty pronounced young-people culture.  I should spend more time shooting there.

<div class="block_c">
<blockquote class="imgur-embed-pub" lang="en" data-id="a/NIaAX9e"  ><a href="//imgur.com/a/NIaAX9e">America-town-&gt;Dotonbori</a></blockquote><script async src="//s.imgur.com/min/embed.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</div>

Dotonbori used to be a famous geisha district and is still one of Osaka's nightlife hotspots.  The food is excellent, and the signage is wonderfully over-the-top.

<div class="block_c">
<blockquote class="imgur-embed-pub" lang="en" data-id="a/xIp2FDg"  ><a href="//imgur.com/a/xIp2FDg">Dotonbori at Dusk</a></blockquote><script async src="//s.imgur.com/min/embed.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</div>

With so signs, night-photography is pretty fun here.  I really ought to shoot here again, and the expanse of interesting content convinced me to get a fisheye lens.

<div class="block_c">
<blockquote class="imgur-embed-pub" lang="en" data-id="a/lG8pri7"  ><a href="//imgur.com/a/lG8pri7">Dotonbori at Night</a></blockquote><script async src="//s.imgur.com/min/embed.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</div>

### Phone Pics
I really like my Sony Alpha 6000 and the control and flexibility that the machine offers.  Admittedly, once can still take some excellent photos on a simple smartphone these days (I'm using a Xiaomi Note 9).  My small camera-bag is easy to take places, but I'm glad that I always have a decent-enough tool in my pocket.  Thanks, Papa-Xi.
<div class="block_c">
<blockquote class="imgur-embed-pub" lang="en" data-id="a/R2og7bj"  ><a href="//imgur.com/a/R2og7bj">Phone Pictures 2021-01</a></blockquote><script async src="//s.imgur.com/min/embed.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</div>

## Return to US
I'm still in discussions with my employer about returning to the US.  The timeline seems to be moving slightly farther back towards March.  As I've written previously, I'm very sad to leave this place but am anxious to move on with my life and get back to my family.

## Nuclear War Survival Skills
I'm reading a pdf of [Nuclear War Survival Skills](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nuclear_War_Survival_Skills) by Cresson Kearny.  I'm not betting on a nuclear war, but given the developments in geopolitics and weapons technology, the material interests me.  It's comforting knowing that projected attacks are actually quite survivable with enough preparation.

That's all I've got for this entry.  Feel free to reach out.
